Improve documentation ans skill related to triage process. (#2100)
google/A2UI: docs/contributing/triage-templates.md

2. **Verbatim by default.** Post the reply as written when the case matches cleanly. These
   texts encode team policy and agreed tone, so do not rewrite them for style — the
   [natural-writing](../../natural-writing/SKILL.md) guidance applies to replies you draft
   yourself, not to these.
3. **Modify only when the case needs it.** Fill in every placeholder (`<link to new PR>`,
   canonical issue number, the specific missing detail), and add at most one or two
   sentences of issue-specific context. Keep the policy sentences intact.
4. **Apply the paired triage fields.** Each case lists the priority and action that go with
   it, so the reply and the labels stay consistent.
5. **Fall back deliberately.** If no case matches, draft a reply following the response
   guidelines in [triage_criteria.md](triage_criteria.md), and say in your summary that no
   standard reply applied.

---

## Issues

### Weekly A2UI Compliance Report

**Case**: AI-generated compliance report issues, such as
[Weekly A2UI Compliance Report](https://github.com/a2ui-project/a2ui/issues/2025).

**Triage**: priority `P3`, action `backlog` (keeps the issue open).

> As agreed, this has been assigned a P3 priority. Once the current triage queue is cleared,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has been assigned a P3 priority. Once the current triage queue is cleared,
```

we will begin reviewing AI-generated issues.

### Assigned issue without a priority

**Case**: The issue already has an assignee but no priority label, so it sits in the triage
queue with nothing else to decide.

**Triage**: priority `P2`, action `assign_and_fix`, keeping the existing assignee.

> I assigned a P2 priority to move this out of the triage queue. Please adjust the priority

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has been assigned a P2 priority to move this out of the triage queue. Please adjust the priority
```

if needed to better reflect the issue's status.

### Stale P2 issue

**Case**: The issue is P2 but stale.

**Triage**: add comment.

This issue should be considered for a P1 priority together with other P2 issues in the next planning cycle after we burn through the triage queue.

### Stale assigned P1 issue

**Case**: The issue is P1 and has an assignee, but has been stale for a while.

**Triage**: add comment.

Ping from triage process: is this issue still on your radar?

### Out of Scope / Roadmap Conflict

**Case**: The user suggests a feature or change that is outside the current scope of the A2UI protocol roadmap.

**Triage**: priority `P4`, action `backlog` (keeps the issue open).

Thanks for the suggestion. This falls outside the current scope of the A2UI protocol roadmap.

> Marked as `P4`: we do not plan to invest in it, and PRs against it will not be reviewed. Leaving it open as a record of the request — comment here if you have new arguments to share.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marked as `P4`: we do not plan to invest in it and PRs against it will not be reviewed. Leaving it open as a record of the request — comment here if you have new arguments to share.
```

## Pull requests

> These cases are handled by the oncall engineer directly. The dashboard and apply script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These cases are handled by the on-call engineer directly. The dashboard and apply script
```

cover issues only, so the actions below are performed by hand.

### Superseded PR

**Case**: A valid contribution that has gone stale and was replaced by a newer PR carrying
the original commit.

**Triage**: close the PR, linking the superseding one.

Thank you for your contribution! We apologize that this PR has become outdated. To

> expedite the process, I created a superseding PR based on your analysis and changes. Your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expedite the process, a superseding PR based on your analysis and changes has been created. Your
```

original commit is included to ensure your contribution is properly recorded.
`<link to new PR>`

### Complex PR without an associated issue

**Case**: A complex PR that does not address an issue. Straightforward and minor PRs are exempt.

**Triage**: close the PR.

Thank you for your contribution. Unfortunately, we must decline this PR at this time.  

> Our team resources are limited, and our policy is to prioritize the review of PRs that address an existing issue prioritized issues. Consider opening issue  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our team resources are limited, and our policy is to prioritize the review of PRs that address an existing prioritized issue. Consider opening a new issue  
```

and link your PR in the issue description as one of the options for resolution.

### PR outside the project's scope

**Case**: The change targets functionality the maintenance team cannot support long-term.

**Triage**: close the PR.

> Thank you for your contribution to the A2UI ecosystem! Unfortunately, we must decline this PR as the scope of this repository is restricted to features the maintenance team can support long-term. We encourage you to find a more suitable repository for this code or to consider launching your own repository to support this segment of the A2UI ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thank you for your contribution to the A2UI ecosystem! Unfortunately, we must decline this PR as the scope of this repository is restricted to features the team can support long-term. We encourage you to find a more suitable repository for this code or to consider launching your own repository to support this segment of the A2UI ecosystem.
```

### Complex PR towards existing issue but not assigned to the author

> **Case**: Complex PR that is not assigned to the author.  

Reviewer: What is the intent here?: If I create a complex PR, I'm supposed to assign it to myself?

> It might be a good contribution, but we do not have enough bandwidth to review it at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thank you for the contribution! Your PR is likely a good contribution, but we do not have enough bandwidth to review a PR of this complexity at this time.
```

**Triage**: close the PR.

> Thank you for your contribution to the A2UI ecosystem! Unfortunately, we must decline this PR at this time: we review PRs against an issue only from the contributor the issue is assigned to, and this one is not assigned to you. Issues are assigned in priority order, so we cannot say yet when this one will be picked up.

Reviewer: Why are we refusing to consider PRs that fix existing issues?  Could they at least request that the issue be assigned to them?  (That probably won't work if they aren't members of the org yet...)

I would think that we would like to receive fixes to existing issues: it's one of the reasons to have an open source project.

> We will link this PR to the issue, so whoever takes it on can see your approach. They may reopen this PR and build on it rather than start from scratch.

Reviewer: They can only look at the PR and build on it if the contributor signed the CLA.
```suggestion
We will link this PR to the issue.  If you have signed the CLA, whoever takes it on may review your approach. They may also reopen or clone this PR and build on it rather than start from scratch.
```

### Meaningful stale PR with conflicts

**Case**: The PR is meaningful, but has conflicts with the main branch.

**Triage**: assign `status: waiting-for-user-response`.

> Thank you for your contribution. I am sorry it took so long for our team to review your PR. Unfortunately the branch has conflicts with the main branch. If you believe the issue is not resolved yet, can you, please, resolve the conflicts? We will review it again after you resolve conflicts.

Reviewer: It's not necessarily because it took a long time: you can get conflicts immediately.
